All right one last thing here since we have our equation for the charge as a function of time it's also
important just to look at the current.
Here is a function of time to get the general expression the definition of the current is the rate of
change of the current of the charge rather as a function of time.
Try that again.
OK so the first term is C..
All right if I just multiply that through you take a derivative of a constant that equals to zero you
don't have to worry about that one the next term if we're going to get mine.
See that term is the constant in front of the exponential.
The derivative of this exponential now you're going to get a minus 1 over R C term is going to pop out.
That's the derivative of the exponential.
And then you're left with the exact same term minus T and divided by this time constant R C.
All right.
So let's clean this up a little bit.
You notice you have the capacitance in the numerator and denominator and get rid of that one.
Notice you have a negative sign here and you have a negative sign here.
All right so the last bit.
Let's just clean this up a little bit.
So we get that the current as a function of time equal to.
So the term in the front is simply the IMF of the battery divided by the resistance.
And then we get this exponential and it's a decaying exponential time divided by this RC time constant.
There you go just like that.
So this term here in the front this is basically the initial current.
All right.
You can call it either 0 or IMAX right.
That is the current that you get if you substitute time equals to zero here.
So over here you would get a current of zero right.
Zero doesn't depend on the value of the capacitance.
That's an important fact.
Right.
No dependence on capacitance
not
depend on.
This is going to be kind of important later on when we're going to have more complicated circuits and
we're going to look to solve for what the initial current is.
So basically when you first shut the switch it does though the capacitance is not there.
Sometimes you say it looks like the capacitance is shorted as if there's a wire connecting this plate
to that plate.
Therefore no capacitance whatsoever.
Now on a longtime again this term eventually goes to zero.
So you get simply a function that looks like an exponential decay
something like this.
Now again you could this here has a characteristic decay.
This is not the best exponential decay I've ever drawn but this here is characterized by some time constant
RC which you can calculate and well you can compare other cases right.
What if something decayed pretty fast something like this.
Versus what if something decayed very very slowly.
Right something that decays very slowly has a very long time constant.
Right.
So the time constant for this guy here would be some different value of the resistance some different
value of the capacitance.
So you have a large time constant for the purple one you'd have a very short time constant for this
one.
Right.
So the orange one might represent the case where the resistance is very small.
So initially there is quite a bit of current and again maybe I shouldn't start them off all at the same
spot I really just want to compare their DKs here but I'm just looking at kind of how fast it approaches
zero here.
If the resistance is small the Initially there is a lot of current but then it goes to zero very very
fast.
OK.
So this time constant here T-1 is small
definitely smaller than smaller than this guy and definitely smaller than Tower 3.
OK.
So I just wanted to just close this up now so we've talked about the voltage we've talked about the
charge we've talked about the current.
We kind of have it all our building blocks.